README.md, before:

# Personal Website

Personal website and portfolio built with [al-folio](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio) - a beautiful Jekyll theme for academics and researchers.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
- OR Ruby and Jekyll (see [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md) for details)

### Local Development with Docker (Recommended)

1. **Start the development server:**
   ```bash
   docker compose pull
   docker compose up
   ```

2. **View your site:**
   Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8080`

3. **Make changes:**
   Edit files in your favorite editor. Changes will be automatically reflected in the browser.

### Local Development without Docker

1. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   bundle install
   ```

2. **Start Jekyll server:**
   ```bash
   bundle exec jekyll serve
   ```

3. **View your site:**
   Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:4000`

## 📝 Customization

### Basic Configuration

1. **Update `_config.yml`:**
   - Set your name: `first_name`, `last_name`
   - Update `url` and `baseurl` for your GitHub Pages deployment
   - Customize `description` and other site settings

2. **Update Google Scholar Metrics:**
   
   The CV page automatically displays publication counts and citation metrics from your Google Scholar profile. To update these metrics:
   
   ```bash
   # Install Python dependencies (if not already installed)
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   
   # Run the update script
   python3 bin/update_scholar_citations.py
   ```
   
   This script will:
   - Fetch your latest citation counts, h-index, and i10-index from Google Scholar
   - Update `_data/scholar_metrics.yml` with the latest metrics
   - Count publications by type from your BibTeX file
   
   **Note:** The script uses the `scholar_userid` from `_data/socials.yml`. Make sure this is set correctly.
   
   **Automation:** You can set up a GitHub Action or cron job to run this script periodically (e.g., daily or weekly) to keep your metrics up-to-date.

3. **Update About Page:**
   - Edit `_pages/about.md` with your biography
   - Add your profile picture to `assets/img/prof_pic.jpg`

3. **Add Publications:**
   - Edit `_bibliography/papers.bib` with your publications
   - Publications will automatically appear on the publications page

4. **Add Projects:**
   - Create new project files in `_projects/` directory
   - See existing examples for format

5. **Add Social Links:**
   - Edit `_data/socials.yml` to add your social media profiles

### Key Files to Customize

- `_config.yml` - Main configuration file
- `_pages/about.md` - About page content
- `_bibliography/papers.bib` - Publications bibliography
- `_projects/` - Project showcase
- `_data/socials.yml` - Social media links
- `assets/img/prof_pic.jpg` - Profile picture

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Jekyll** - Static site generator
- **al-folio** - Academic theme
- **Bootstrap** - CSS framework
- **Font Awesome** - Icons
- **Academicons** - Academic icons

## 📄 Deployment

### GitHub Pages

1. Push your code to a GitHub repository
2. Go to repository Settings → Pages
3. Set source to `gh-pages` branch (auto-generated by GitHub Actions)
4. Your site will be available at `https://<username>.github.io/<repo-name>`

For detailed deployment instructions, see [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md).

## 📚 Documentation

- [al-folio Documentation](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio)
- [Jekyll Documentation](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/)
- [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md) - Detailed installation and deployment guide
- [CUSTOMIZE.md](CUSTOMIZE.md) - Advanced customization options

## 🎨 Features

- ✨ Modern, clean design
- 📱 Fully responsive
- 🌙 Dark mode support
- 📝 Blog support with Markdown
- 📚 Publication management with BibTeX
- 🔍 Built-in search
- 🎯 Project showcase
- 📊 CV/Resume page
- 🔗 Social media integration

## 📄 License

This project uses the al-folio theme. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Restore baseurl for repository Pages deployment

README.md, after:

# Personal Website

Personal website and portfolio built with [al-folio](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio) - a beautiful Jekyll theme for academics and researchers.

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)
- OR Ruby and Jekyll (see [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md) for details)

### Local Development with Docker (Recommended)

1. **Start the development server:**

   ```bash
   docker compose pull
   docker compose up
   ```

2. **View your site:**
   Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8080`

3. **Make changes:**
   Edit files in your favorite editor. Changes will be automatically reflected in the browser.

### Local Development without Docker

1. **Install dependencies:**

   ```bash
   bundle install
   ```

2. **Start Jekyll server:**

   ```bash
   bundle exec jekyll serve
   ```

3. **View your site:**
   Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:4000`

## 📝 Customization

### Basic Configuration

1. **Update `_config.yml`:**

   - Set your name: `first_name`, `last_name`
   - Update `url` and `baseurl` for your GitHub Pages deployment (`baseurl: "/personal-website"` for repository pages, `""` for custom domains)
   - Customize `description` and other site settings

2. **Update Google Scholar Metrics:**

   The CV page automatically displays publication counts and citation metrics from your Google Scholar profile. To update these metrics:

   ```bash
   # Install Python dependencies (if not already installed)
   pip install -r requirements.txt

   # Run the update script
   python3 bin/update_scholar_citations.py
   ```

   This script will:

   - Fetch your latest citation counts, h-index, and i10-index from Google Scholar
   - Update `_data/scholar_metrics.yml` with the latest metrics
   - Count publications by type from your BibTeX file

   **Note:** The script uses the `scholar_userid` from `_data/socials.yml`. Make sure this is set correctly.

   **Automation:** You can set up a GitHub Action or cron job to run this script periodically (e.g., daily or weekly) to keep your metrics up-to-date.

3. **Update About Page:**

   - Edit `_pages/about.md` with your biography
   - Add your profile picture to `assets/img/prof_pic.jpg`

4. **Add Publications:**

   - Edit `_bibliography/papers.bib` with your publications
   - Publications will automatically appear on the publications page

5. **Add Projects:**

   - Create new project files in `_projects/` directory
   - See existing examples for format

6. **Add Social Links:**
   - Edit `_data/socials.yml` to add your social media profiles

### Key Files to Customize

- `_config.yml` - Main configuration file
- `_pages/about.md` - About page content
- `_bibliography/papers.bib` - Publications bibliography
- `_projects/` - Project showcase
- `_data/socials.yml` - Social media links
- `assets/img/prof_pic.jpg` - Profile picture

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Jekyll** - Static site generator
- **al-folio** - Academic theme
- **Bootstrap** - CSS framework
- **Font Awesome** - Icons
- **Academicons** - Academic icons

## 📄 Deployment

### GitHub Pages

1. Push your code to a GitHub repository
2. Go to repository Settings → Pages
3. Set source to `gh-pages` branch (auto-generated by GitHub Actions)
4. Your site will be available at `https://<username>.github.io/<repo-name>`

For detailed deployment instructions, see [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md).

## 📚 Documentation

- [al-folio Documentation](https://github.com/alshedivat/al-folio)
- [Jekyll Documentation](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/)
- [INSTALL.md](INSTALL.md) - Detailed installation and deployment guide
- [CUSTOMIZE.md](CUSTOMIZE.md) - Advanced customization options

## 🎨 Features

- ✨ Modern, clean design
- 📱 Fully responsive
- 🌙 Dark mode support
- 📝 Blog support with Markdown
- 📚 Publication management with BibTeX
- 🔍 Built-in search
- 🎯 Project showcase
- 📊 CV/Resume page
- 🔗 Social media integration

## 📄 License

This project uses the al-folio theme. See [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
